PIH Malawi Soundex Module 1.0.3 Release Notes (2011/05/17)
-----------------------------------------------------------
In addition to the previous activation codes soundex search can be activated by adding ':s' or ':soundex' at the
end of the actual search string. This reduces the burden to easily switch between conventional and soundex search.

PIH Malawi Soundex Module 1.0.2 Release Notes (2011/05/17)
-----------------------------------------------------------

This release of the soundex search module is compatible with OpenMRS version 1.5.2

Soundex Search can be activated by prepending ':soundex' or ':s' to the patient search query string in the standard
patient search UI. If no activator prefix is provided a conventional patient search query is run.

An individual alias for the soundex activator prefix can be set as runtime property "soundex.search.activatorcode.alias".

If a single query string is entered, the soundex implementation does not know if the user searches for matching given
names or family names. Therefore two independent searches (on given name and on family name) are executed against the
database and the results are mixed up in alterating order in groups of 5.

If two or more query strings are entered, the soundex algorithm recognizes the first string as the given name search
pattern and the second string as the family name search pattern. Only records with either matches are returned.

Familiy name queries not only take into account a patient's family name, but also the family_name2.

Soundex Search is implemented via SQL queries executed via the current Hibernate Session.
It is therefore heavily dependent on some parts of the current database schema. Changes to the database schema
require modifications to the soundex query code. Remember this when thinking about upgrading to a new OpenMRS version.

Soundex codes in database table person_name_codes are used for the search.

Due to performance reasons the query result set size for soundex searches is limited to a default of 100 records.

Soundex Search result set limitation can be adjusted with help of two runtime properties:
"soundex.search.sql.limit"    - for setting the limit for internal SQL queries (in some cases more than one SQL
                                query is run for a single search
"soundex.search.result.limit" - for setting the limit for the overall result set size

Although the soundex search result is a superset of the conventional search there may be records missing compared to
the conventional search result set due to limitations of the soundex result set size.

The ordering of the results is mainly done as part of the SQL query. Records with direct matches rank higher than
records with only phonetic similarity. Records with more matching characters rank higher than records with less
matching characters. Furtheron alphabetical collation is used for ordering the results.
